---
title: Language of Communication
author: ajeet
category: aecc_english
---

# What is Language?
It is a system of words, signs, symbols and sound that is used by a person to communicate her/his emotions, feelings, ideas, desires and wants.

It is the method of human communication in a conventional and structured way.

There are mainly two types of languages:

- Verbal Language
- Non-verbal Language

## Verbal Language

- It us a medium of expression used to convey oral and written messages.
- It consists of words, phrases and sentences which consists of symbols of letters, numbers and     punctuation marks.

Verbal language is also divided in two categories

### Speech

- It is first and formost activity of a language.
- It is vocalized form of human communication.
- The speaker conveys a message a message through spoken words and the listener understands the message though the listening channel.
- The origin of speech is unknown.

### Writing

- It is the representation of language with the help of written signs and symbols.
- The writer uses the script of language to write a message.
- The reader understand the message through reading and decoding process.
- The written material can be preserved for future reference and used as evidence.

## Non verbal language

- Non verbal language plays a vital role in the process of communication.
- The studies reveal that, in our social and professional life, we use non-verbal language more than verbal language.

It includes:

### Body language

- All the body movements, such as expressions, gestures, postures etc., guided by our feelings and expressions are the part of body language.
- All the body movements act as symbols and contribute to the meaning of message.
- It is a prominent and an important medium of non verbal communication.
- It can be learnt consciously as well as unconsciously.

#### Kinesics
- A speaker uses different parts of body, *viz.* head, face, eyes, shoulders, hands etc., to convey the message.
- The study of non verbal behaviour of body movements, which forms a part of non verbal communication, is known as **Kinesics**.

